MSC3786: Add a default push rule to ignore `m.room.server_acl` events (#3786)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/3786-acl-notifs.md

# MSC3786: Add a default push rule to ignore `m.room.server_acl` events

`m.room.server_acl` events allow for expressing which servers can participate in
a room. Often during spam attacks, these events are sent quite frequently, which
causes the users to be overwhelmed by notifications. (See
<https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/20788>) As this is very

> unideal, this MSC proposes a new push rule to avoid this.

Reviewer: I'm very confused as to why this is needed. as far as I can tell there is no current push rule which matches `m.room.server_acl` events - why do we need another one to make that behaviour explicit? Or rather, please can you explain more clearly what the problem is and why this solves it?

## Proposal

> A new default override rule is to be added that ignores `m.room.server_acl`

Reviewer: it's really helpful for readers if you can link to the existing spec. For example:

```suggestion
A new [default override rule](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.2/client-server-api/#default-override-rules) is to be added that ignores `m.room.server_acl`
```

> events:

Reviewer: since the list of rules is ordered, please could you specify where in the list the new rule is to be added?

```json
{

>     "rule_id": ".m.rule.room.server_acl",

Reviewer: this should probably be `.m.rule.suppress_server_acl`, for consistency with `.m.rule.suppress_notices`

Reviewer: mmm, probably you're right.

    "default": true,
    "enabled": true,
    "conditions": [
        {
            "kind": "event_match",
            "key": "type",
            "pattern": "m.room.server_acl"
        }
    ],

>     "actions": [
>         "dont_notify"
>     ]

Reviewer: `dont_notify` is a no-op, so this should just be:

```suggestion
    "actions": []
```

Author: This is intended to be a no-op, similarly to `.m.rule.member_event` and `.m.rule.reaction`

Reviewer: well, I've said the same thing over on MSC2677 and MSC2153 for `.m.rule.reaction`, and I believe its presence on `.m.rule.member_event` is a bug too (https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/643). There's no need to propagate that bug here.

It's not that important though.

# MSC3786: Add a default push rule to ignore `m.room.server_acl` events

`m.room.server_acl` events allow for expressing which servers can participate in
a room. Often during spam attacks, these events are sent quite frequently, which
causes the users to be overwhelmed by notifications, if they have the room rule
set to `notify` (`All messages` in Element). (See
<https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/20788>) As this is very
unideal, this MSC proposes a new push rule to avoid this. It is analogues
to [MSC2153](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2153).

## Proposal

A new [default override rule](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.2/client-server-api/#default-override-rules) is to be added that ignores `m.room.server_acl`
events:

```json
{
    "rule_id": ".m.rule.room.server_acl",
    "default": true,
    "enabled": true,
    "conditions": [
        {
            "kind": "event_match",
            "key": "type",
            "pattern": "m.room.server_acl"
        }
    ],
    "actions": [
        "dont_notify"
    ]
}
```

> This new push rule is inserted immediately after `.m.rule.reaction`.

Reviewer: `m.rule.reaction` doesn't exist (yet).

so these events should not trigger notifications; however right now they *do*
trigger notifications, if the user has the room rule set to `notify` (`All
messages` in Element). 

Additionally, these events are often sent quite frequently during spam attacks, 
which causes the users to be overwhelmed by
notifications. (See <https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/20788>.)

Due to these problems, this MSC proposes a new push rule to ignore these events.
The new push rule is analogous to `.m.rule.member_event` (see https://spec.matrix.org/v1.2/client-server-api/#default-override-rules), or `.m.rule.reaction`
(from [MSC2153](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2153)
or [MSC2677](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2677)).

## Proposal

A new [default override
rule](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.2/client-server-api/#default-override-rules) is
to be added that ignores `m.room.server_acl` events:

```json
{
    "rule_id": ".m.rule.room.server_acl",
    "default": true,
    "enabled": true,
    "conditions": [
        {
            "kind": "event_match",
            "key": "type",
            "pattern": "m.room.server_acl"

>         }

Reviewer 2: we made a mistake in the `m.room.tombstone` implementation where we forgot to also filter by state_key - let's not make that same mistake again please, particularly as this time the mistake will be in the spec.

# MSC3786: Add a default push rule to ignore `m.room.server_acl` events

`m.room.server_acl` events allow for expressing which servers can participate in
a room. Room server ACLs aren't something the user should have to worry about,

> so these events should not trigger notifications, though right now they DO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so these events should not trigger notifications; however right now they *do*
```

> trigger notifications, if they have the room rule set to `notify` (`All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trigger notifications, if the user has the room rule set to `notify` (`All
```

> messages` in Element). To add to this, often during spam attacks, these events
> are sent quite frequently, which causes the users to be overwhelmed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messages` in Element). 

Additionally, these events are often sent quite frequently during spam attacks, 
which causes the users to be overwhelmed by
```

> notifications. (See <https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/20788>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
notifications. (See <https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/20788>.)
```

Due to these problems, this MSC proposes a new push rule to ignore these events.

> The new push rule is analogues to `.m.rule.member_event` or `.m.rule.reaction`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new push rule is analogous to `.m.rule.member_event` (see https://spec.matrix.org/v1.2/client-server-api/#default-override-rules), or `.m.rule.reaction`
```

(from [MSC2153](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2153)

> or [MSC2677](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2677))
> when merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or [MSC2677](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2677)).
```

`m.room.server_acl` events allow for expressing which servers can participate in
a room. Often during spam attacks, these events are sent quite frequently, which
causes the users to be overwhelmed by notifications, if they have the room rule
set to `notify` (`All messages` in Element). (See
<https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/20788>) As this is very
unideal, this MSC proposes a new push rule to avoid this. It is analogues

> to [MSC2153](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2153).

Reviewer: MSC2153 hasn't been accepted, so please could you have this MSC explain why it is needed in its own right ?

Author: Sorry, I think I am having a bit of trouble expressing why this is needed - is it more understandable now?

Reviewer: honestly no, sorry :)

I'm uncomfortable that the only justification for this change is "because these other unaccepted MSCs say so". Apart from anything else, it effectively means that there is no chance of this MSC being accepted until those are.

I think you just need [this sentence](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2153/files#diff-667fcbac442602724446f86af8774e828e8a7cce33e06a07043922cacf652524R8) from MSC2153.

Author: > I'm uncomfortable that the only justification for this change is "because these other unaccepted MSCs say so". Apart from anything else, it effectively means that there is no chance of this MSC being accepted until those are.

Yes, that makes sense... :sweat_smile: 

> I think you just need [this sentence](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2153/files#diff-667fcbac442602724446f86af8774e828e8a7cce33e06a07043922cacf652524R8) from [MSC2153](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2153).

The MSC now has [a similar sentence](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/01704756cc09f071358be9b595b254719da4ecc9/proposals/3786-acl-notifs.md?plain=1#L6) - it it clear?

Reviewer: yeah it's better, thanks.

Sorry, I'm not sure I'm going to have any time to review this or the implementation for the next week.

Author: > yeah it's better, thanks.

Great! Sorry for the chaos before...

> Sorry, I'm not sure I'm going to have any time to review this or the implementation for the next week.

No worries
